So now that we've talked about
the Future model a bit more,
and I've shown you sort
of the steps involved,
and I've talked more about
how the methods get triggered,
let's actually show a complete
example that illustrates how
a program with Futures.
And this particular example
will bring back our good friend,
the BigInteger
object in order to be
able to program
multiplications of big integers
and big fractions
using Java Futures.
So if you recall,
a big fraction is
a class that uses big integers,
and we have various things
we can do with this that
supports arbitrary precision
fractions, utilizing big
integers for numerator
and denominators.
As we said earlier-- so I'll
kind of go through this pretty
fast--
the factory methods
available in BigFraction
could be used to create
reduced fractions.
We can use these to create
non-reduced fractions,
and then later reduce them, we
can perform arbitrary precision
fraction arithmetic, and we can
also create a mixed fraction
from an improper fraction.
So I've covered this
material earlier
when we were talking
about other abstractions,
so I won't spend a lot of
time talking about it here.
But this is what
we covered when we
were talking about the fork-join
pool examples, where we were
multiplying random, large,
big fractions together,
and then reducing them
and multiplying them
with other stuff.
So let's show an
example of how we
could use the Future
API via a Callable
and the common fork-join pool.
And so as you can see, in
this particular example,
we're going to use Futures
to go ahead and kick things
off and run them.
The particular processing
we're going to do here
is just a more detailed
example we talked about before.
We're going to create
a Callable, which
will be at a task that will
be a lambda expression.
And this supplier
lambda, which conforms
to the signature
expected by a Callable,
will create two BigFractions
and multiply them together.
That'll obviously take
place in the background.
We can pass parameters
into this lambda
by using so-called effectively
final variables so f1 and f2,
which represent our big
fractions as strings will
be capable of being passed
into that supplier lambda
because they aren't changed
after the point where they're
initialized.
Then we go ahead and we submit
the task using the common pool
of the fork-join pool.
And we submit this
task, that you
can submit a task that
you can submit Callables
to the fork-join pool.
A fork-join pool
returns a Future task,
but a Future task implements
the Future interface.
And therefore, we can
simply get this back
and store it as a Future,
which is pretty cool.
So we're submitting this to
the common fork joint pool
as a Callable and
getting back a Future.
That Future can be used
to represent the pending
results of the task.
And other code can then run
where I put the dot dot dot,
and that will run concurrently
with the task that's
executing in the background.
So the task that's
running there will
be running in some thread
in the fork-join pool,
and we can be doing
other code here.
And at some point, we might
want to go ahead and get
the results.
And so in this case, we call the
version of get that will block,
waiting for the
asynchronous computation
to complete, and then
get the result back.
We can also pass in a
time value here, which
could be 0 if we
just want to pull it,
or it could be some
value greater than 0
if we want to wait up
to that amount of time.
Now, if we pass in a 0
and there's nothing there,
it'll return null,
indicating that we
don't have the result yet.
If we give a value
that's greater than 0,
like 10, it'll wait
up to 10 seconds.
If it gets the
result in that time,
we'll get the result back.
If we don't get the result,
we'll get back a null.